# [55. Jump Game](https://leetcode.com/problems/jump-game/description/)

<div class="elfjS" data-track-load="description_content"><p>You are given an integer array <code>nums</code>. You are initially positioned at the array's <strong>first index</strong>, and each element in the array represents your maximum jump length at that position.</p>

<p>Return <code>true</code><em> if you can reach the last index, or </em><code>false</code><em> otherwise</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,3,1,1,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> true
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Jump 1 step from index 0 to 1, then 3 steps to the last index.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [3,2,1,0,4]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
<strong>Explanation:</strong> You will always arrive at index 3 no matter what. Its maximum jump length is 0, which makes it impossible to reach the last index.
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
</ul>
</div>

<hr/>

## Solution-1 
Time Limit Exceeded, 172 / 172 testcases passed - Testcases passed, but took too long.

```py
class Solution:
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        n = len(nums)
        if nums[0] == 0:
            return False if n > 1 else True

        i = 0
        origin_map = {}
        while nums and i < n - 1:
            if i < n-1 and nums[i] == 0:
                while origin_map and i in origin_map and nums[i] == 0:
                    i = origin_map[i]
                if i == 0 and nums[i] == 0:
                    return False
            old_i = i
            i += nums[i]
            origin_map[i] = old_i
            nums[old_i] -= 1

        return True if i >= n - 1 else False
```

</br>

## Solution-2 (Greedy Linear time solution):

```py
class Solution:
    # O(N)
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        n = len(nums)
        # start from last index as goal and keep shifting goal closer to the start(0)
        goal = n-1
        for i in range(n-2, -1, -1):
            if i + nums[i] >= goal:
                goal = i
        return True if goal == 0 else False
```

</br>

## Solution-3 (Greedy Linear time solution):

### Intuition
Imagine, we have a car and are given an array of places we want to travel to. the last place is our destination. Everytime we move forward by 1 place, we consume 1 unit of gasoline/diesel. and at each place, if we find more diesel than current, we can fuel up our car by that max. litre of diesel. at any place in between (except destination of course) if our car runs out of diesel (it becomes 0), then we're stuck there and we cannot reach end destination for sure.

```py
class Solution:
    # O(N)
    def canJump(self, nums: List[int]) -> bool:
        gas = 0
        for num in nums:
            if gas < 0:
                return False
            elif num > gas:
                gas = num
            gas -= 1    
        return True
```

### Greedy Approach

This solution employs a greedy approach because at each step of the iteration through the nums list, it makes the locally optimal choice. Here's how it demonstrates the greedy approach:

**Local Optimal Choice**: At each position, the algorithm makes a local decision on how far it can jump next. It chooses the maximum possible jump distance from the current position (`num`) and decrements `gas` by 1 unit for each step.

**Greedy Decision Making**: The decision to update `gas` is made based on the current value of num and the current value of `gas`. It greedily chooses the option that maximizes the potential reach in the next step.

**No Backtracking**: The algorithm doesn't backtrack or reconsider previous decisions. It simply moves forward based on the current state and the locally optimal choice made at each step.

**End Goal**: The goal of reaching the end of the list is achieved by consistently making locally optimal choices at each step without considering the entire sequence of jumps beforehand.

In essence, the algorithm exhibits a greedy approach by prioritizing the immediate next step based on the locally optimal choice, aiming to reach the end of the list efficiently (It greedily chooses the option that maximizes the potential reach in the next step.) without considering the global picture of all possible jumps.

